Sonal/codebuilder beta (#4007)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/en/codebuilder/cb-diffs.md

---
title: What's Different
lang: en
---
## What’s Different in Code Builder

> Code Builder offers the same rich tooling and unleashes the power of Salesforce VS Code extensions  as the desktop version. No matter whether you are using VS Code on desktop or Code Builder from a browser, the Salesforce extensions you access are the same. While the extensions generally function the same way regardless of how they are being accessed, there are some nuances to be aware of:

Reviewer: This para is a bit awkward. I'll suggest some edits.

> Code Builder offers the same rich tooling and unleashes the power of Salesforce VS Code extensions  as the desktop version. No matter whether you are using VS Code on desktop or Code Builder from a browser, the Salesforce extensions you access are the same. While the extensions generally function the same way regardless of how they are being accessed, there are some nuances to be aware of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code Builder unleashes the power of Salesforce Extensions for VS Code extensions and offers the same rich features as the desktop version. No matter whether you're using VS Code on your desktop or Code Builder from a browser, the Salesforce extensions you access are the same. While the extensions generally function the same way regardless of how they're accessed, there are some nuances to be aware of:
```

> * Code Builder installed as a managed package, and your Code Builder environment comes pre-configured for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Code Builder is installed as a managed package, and your Code Builder environment comes pre-configured for you.
```

> * Working in Code Builder doesn’t require you to install VS Code or Salesforce Extensions or Salesforce CLI. 

Reviewer: I would simplify: Code Builder comes with everything you need: VS Code, Salesforce extensions, and Salesforce CLI. No installation required.

Reviewer: Or --
With Code Builder, you're good to go. We install everything you need: VS Code, SF extensions, and Salesforce CLI.

> * Unlike VS Code for the desktop, you cannot add any new extensions to your Code Builder development environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unlike VS Code for the desktop, you can't add any new extensions to your Code Builder development environment.
```

* Because Code Builder is inherently lightweight and optimized to run in the cloud, access to certain functionalities is limited:    

>     * Functions development is available for Javascript and Typescript Functions only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Functions development is available only for Javascript and Typescript functions. (unsure of the capitalization but this "feels" right)
```

>     * LWC Local Development (beta) is not available in Code Builder. You can't preview LWC components locally, but deploy them to your org to view them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * LWC Local Development (beta) is not available in Code Builder. You can't preview LWC components locally, but can deploy them to your org to view them.
```

>     * LWC Local Development (beta) is not available in Code Builder. Deploy LWC components to your org to view them.

Reviewer: should you say "preview" somewhere. (second sentence) You can't preview LWC components locally but must deploy them to your org to view them. (something like that)

> * Code Builder allows you to carry your development environment with you. Bookmark your development environment to return to it, or access the link from a different machine. 

Reviewer: Alt: Code Builder enables you to work from anywhere.

Reviewer: Or. With Code Builder, you can work from anywhere. (I think I like this one a little better)

> * Unlike a desktop IDE, Code Builder saves your work for you without you explicitly having to do so. But since your beta environment's usage is capped at 20 hours, and your environment is wiped once your clock runs out, remember to either push your work to source control or deploy your changes to your org. 

Reviewer: the second sentence runs on a bit. So let's break it into two.

However, your beta environment's usage is capped at 20 hours. Once the clock runs out, your data and metadata are deleted. Be sure to push your work to your source control system or deploy your changes to your org.

Reviewer: Well, two, three. Who's counting? :)

Reviewer: I think we should be explicit about what gets wiped. I took a guess. And after 20 hours, when do you regain access to CB? 20 hours a week, month, year?

> * Unlike a desktop IDE, Code Builder saves your work for you without you explicitly having to do so. But since your beta environment's usage is capped at 20 hours, and your environment is wiped once your clock runs out, remember to either push your work to source control or deploy your changes to your org. 

Reviewer: do you want to say "commit" here instead of push like you do in the Quick Start?

## Known Gaps and Issues

> Code Builder is currently in beta,  and we are actively collecting feedback from our customers as we continue to work on improving our project. See [Known Gaps and Issues](https://github.com/forcedotcom/try-code-builder-feedback/wiki/Known-Gaps-and-Issues) for a list of issues we are aware of. 

Reviewer: This para and next have extra spaces between words

> Code Builder is currently in beta, and we are actively collecting feedback from our customers as we continue to work on improving our project. See [Known Gaps and Issues](https://github.com/forcedotcom/try-code-builder-feedback/wiki/Known-Gaps-and-Issues) for a list of issues we are aware of. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code Builder is currently in beta, and we're actively collecting feedback from you, our customers, as we continue to work on improving our project. See [Known Gaps and Issues](https://github.com/forcedotcom/try-code-builder-feedback/wiki/Known-Gaps-and-Issues) for a list of issues we are aware of. 
```

If you notice any issues that  haven't made our list, or want to provide other types of feedback, such as initial impressions or feature requests, [file an issue](https://github.com/forcedotcom/try-code-builder-feedback/issues) in the GitHub repo. We want to understand what features and enhancements are important to you.

## Important Considerations for Code Builder Beta

> We've capped usage for beta at 20 hours for a maximum of 30 days. We highly recommend that you save your work and close the browser tab that is running Code Builder to stop the usage clock when you aren’t using Code Builder.

Reviewer: here you say it, but you should also say it above

> We've capped usage for beta at 20 hours for a maximum of 30 days. We highly recommend that you save your work and close the browser tab that is running Code Builder to stop the usage clock when you aren’t using Code Builder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've capped usage for beta at 20 hours for a maximum of 30 days. We highly recommend that you save your work and close the browser tab to stop the usage clock when you aren’t using Code Builder.
```

> ## Important Considerations for Code Builder Beta

Reviewer: This seems to mostly or totally repeat same info in parent topic. Any way to just cross ref so you don't repeat the info? Repeated info just increases your maintenance burden of having to update it in two places and the need to remember to do so as the content grows.
